in my last video I developed a Q&A
website for coders using Django and as I
mentioned in that video I didn't use
view or react or anything like that just
to keep it simple later though I decided
to add view j/s on top of it instead of
react so in this video I'm gonna show
you why I decided to make that
particular choice how I did it and what
I was able to accomplish using it first
of all let me show you what my use case
was basically it's for the question page
that shows the details of a question and
the answers to that question and I
wanted to use view to add this output
and download buttons for the question as
well as each answer what I used to have
before is I used to have these upward
and downward buttons for the question
but then every time someone would click
it it will refresh the whole page and I
think that was ok for the question
because there's only one question per
page but I think it'll be pretty
annoying for the answers because if I
wanted to say you know upload all of
these answers it would refresh you know
the whole page every time for each
answer it's not a very smooth experience
right and the way I solve this
particular problem
using view is I first replaced this
upload and download buttons for that
question so it doesn't refresh the whole
page and then I replicated the same
functionality to each answer and that's
when I needed to decide whether I wanted
to use react view or something else and
so let me explain why I decided to go
with view right here actually for my
previous project I used react and Django
together and that kind of worked but it
was a huge pain to set everything up so
the approach I was using with react and
Django is called page as a component the
idea of this approach is to replace only
a portion of the website for example one
page one particular kind of page of your
website with a react component
so in this case I would replace just the
question page with a reactor component
but nothing else a different approach
would be to replace this whole website
with a single reactor component and that
approach is called a single page app but
I didn't go with that because pages of
components
you know replacing only one page with a
reactor component is slightly simpler so
that was the approach I was using but
even with that approach it was way too
complicated definitely a lot more
complex than using view and the reason
why react is more complicated is because
with react you will need to use a lot of
other things for example you would need
to set up a node.js server that's
separate from your Django server and
then you will need to use libraries like
babel and webpack so there are a lot of
other things that you would need to
learn to use other than react but with
view it's much simpler to set it up as
you see in a second so let me show you
how to go about setting it up with
Django here just for a demo I created a
new page called tests it's at the local
servers URL slash tests this is my local
Dremel server and it just says hello
it's a simple page and it's actually
already running a view app on top of
Django so let me show you how I set it
up the first thing I did is I created
this new view called test view in Django
and this is invoked when that URL is
called by a user and this test view is
going to retrieve the current user and
then it's going to render my new
template called testa HTML using this
context this context contains the
username of the current user as well as
the current user object itself so that
this template testa HTML has access to
those two variables so now let's take a
look at the template that I just
mentioned
testa HTML it has two simple components
three if you want to kind of counter
everything so let me explain those the
first one is we need to import the view
library which is done in the simple
statements but it's actually done in the
head part of the HTML so we can just
comment this out because we don't have
to import it twice and the second part
is the main div that we're gonna use
that's associated with our view instance
and the third part is the script where
the view instance is defined so let me
explain the script part first
in this script section and as I said a
new view instance is defined and it's
assigned to a variable called app and in
this part of the code there are a couple
things that are defined now the first
one is the limiters so usually we don't
need to define the limiters explicitly
but here we need to because the default
delimiters of you are the same as the
default delimiter is Django which are
double square brackets I would double
curly brackets so we need to use
something else for view and that's why
we're using double square brackets here
instead of double curly brackets and
this is what tells view which things our
view variables so for example here I my
HTML we're saying this thing message is
a view variable it's not a regular HTML
thing when view sees this it looks for
this variable in the data attribute of
this view instance so here I'm saying
the data of this view instance is just
one called message
it's its value is hello another thing
that we need to define here is this L
which I think stands for element this is
the element that corresponds to this
view instance and this is the ID app and
that refers to this div element right
here
so just to recap we have a new div
element here with the ID app and that's
associated with this new view instance
that we just defined with the delimiters
double square brackets and when view
sees this thing or when your browser
sees this part with view it says okay
you know what should this variable be
and it looks for it in this data section
here and it says okay that's hello so
this part message it's gonna be replaced
with hello and that's why when we go to
slash tests that's exactly what we see
hello now I explain a lot of things here
but I think the key point here is that
it's much simpler to setup a view waste
jungle than to set up reactivates jungle
you know here all I needed
all I needed to do is I needed to import
view with a single line and then set up
a new view instance and set up a single
div element with a particular ID now
that's it and I have a view up here you
know I don't need to use any other
libraries like a node.js server or Babel
web pack so it's definitely simpler than
react I would say anyway
if you want to use a jungle variable
within this view app that's pretty
simple - the simplest way to do it it
might not be the correct way to do it
would be to
in this message for example I can just
write double curly brackets username so
what happens with this script is when
Django see this when Django sees the
same plate it's gonna replace this part
username with the actual current
username and then when this is sent to
the browser
this is gonna be hello
username whatever the user name is and
then this part message is gonna be
replaced with that particular string so
if my username is let's say YK dojo I
should see hello YK dojo here
so again jungle replace jungle will
replace this username with YK dojo and
then this string becomes how I work it
dojo and that is gonna be right here
hello YK dojo and if I save this file
and go to that URL that's what I should
see right here and that's exactly what I
see right now I'm logged in as YK dojo -
as you can see right here so I see hello
YK dojo - now this approach technically
works but I would say it's a little bit
hacky because I'm mixing jungles
template language with JavaScript so a
more you know clean way of doing it
would be something like this I'm gonna
use this jungle statements this says
take the jungle variable username and
then make it available to the HTML and
to JavaScript by putting it in an
element called username so this way we
can make this jungle variable available
to JavaScript and we can retrieve it in
JavaScript with
this little thing right here let me
paste it here and let me explain here so
this JavaScript statement says get this
element that's that contains this
variable username with document dot get
element by ID and then get what's inside
it and parse it so that it's available
in this new JavaScript variable username
so this way you know it's a little bit
cleaner because we're separating jungle
templating with JavaScript and now
instead of using a jungle variable here
directly we can use the JavaScript
variable instead which I think it's
cleaner like that hello plus user name
plus let's say an exclamation mark so
this way we should see the same thing
because we're supplying the jungle
username variable to JavaScript and
we're retrieving it into a JavaScript
variable and then we're putting it here
into the message which is part of the
view app here and so when this gets
loaded that's what we should see hello
user name exclamation mark so let's make
sure that works by going to the same URL
and refreshing it yeah that's what we
see hello user name now this is the
first basic step for setting up a Django
and view together but if you want to
create your own full stack app using
this text stack this is not quite enough
so let me try to explain those quickly
the first thing is this statement that
we saw earlier doesn't always
automatically work so it worked
he works for simple variables like this
username which is a string but if we had
a more complex object for example the
current user that we were passing from
our Django view
it doesn't always work so I got this
error object of type user is not JSON is
serializable what that means is that
jungle provides us with with a default
serializer the serializes this object
this given object into a JSON object
that can be used within JavaScript but
this default serializer doesn't always
work so what you'll need to do instead
is you need to set up your own custom
serializer using jungle rest frameworks
serializer a library and I don't have
time to explain that right now so I'm
gonna put you know all the relevant
links in the description so that you
know you'll be able to look into how to
do that and you can look at my code as
an example about how to do that too and
that's what I used to serialize you know
each answer object that's sent to my
view app too so that my view app will be
able to you know eat use each answer
object as if that's an JavaScript object
now the second thing is what if you
wanted to send some data from view to
jungle not just from the from Django to
view well the first thing you want to do
is you want to define a method in your
view instance kind of like this methods
and then you can define the name and the
function so let's call it votes so let's
let's just say this is gonna be a
function that's gonna be called when you
know one of the vote buttons is clicked
for now I'm just gonna create a simple
function that's gonna say alert the
votes function is invoked
and then what you want to do is you want
to use this special attributes v on
quick I think this is the right syntax
and then just say booked
so this says when this element is
clicked this method should be invoked
let's make sure it works so far by
clicking it and it works when whenever
this element is clicked that function is
invoked and to send data or to send a
request from view to jungle what you
want to do is you want to use this
library called Axios which is
recommended by view itself and this
library you can use it to send an AJAX
request to the jungle server with some
data from the view app so for example in
this function you can just say you know
use the Axios library to send a post
request using an AJAX request to django
server to either upload or download or
cancel that boat and when when the
jungle server handles that request and
says okay you know that vote was
accepted some kind of response is
returned to the view app and within the
view app within this function you can
handle that request so with my
particular app let me show you how that
works quickly when I upload let's say
this answer right here that request is
sent to other jungle server when that is
successful I can you know change the
color of this upload button within view
okay so all of this is pretty technical
you might say is it really worth the
effort and I would say in this
particular case it definitely was so let
me explain why there is one more sort of
feature that I implement it you know
related to these voting function and
that is the point system so how that
works is whenever you answer someone's
question and someone else uploads your
answer you get one point you know every
time someone uploads your answer and
that point is shown right here with your
user name and your this is my point and
this is shown in the leaderboard - so
whoever you know answers most about most
amount of questions and gets most amount
of points is shown here and I found that
it's actually pretty motivating I say
this because as soon as I implemented
this leaderboard and point functions I
noticed that people started answering
questions more so for example right now
you know most of these questions at the
top page have already been answered at
least once and it seems like you know
this leaderboard and the point system is
a big part of it it might you know seem
a little bit silly but it's pretty
motivating I find for other users and
for myself too and people sometimes even
you know talk about it and say stuff
like you know how can I get a point and
by the way the answer to that question
is you just need to answer somebody
else's question and then somebody else
will need to put your question I mean
your answer so those are the main
features that I worked on these past few
weeks
but there are a few other things that I
added the one big one is the search
function you know to search for
questions I thought about different
alternatives for implementing this one
you know should I use a jungle search
function or maybe a third third party
such library but I decided to go with
Google's custom search function I guess
because it's the simplest way to
implement it and it's free for me it's
not perfect
I think it's good enough for now so if
you search for for example Django
it's gonna show all the questions that
are related to jungle again it's not
perfect you know it shows like an ad
from Google and that's not ideal but I
think it's good enough for now and I
wanted to have a search function as soon
as possible and that's why I decided to
go with this approach and you know if
you try using this website and if you
have bug reports or feature requests or
anything like that you can just go to
the source code of this page and you can
submit a new issue right here on github
and I'll see what I can do about that
okay that's pretty much all I wanted to
talk about today you know sorry for the
delay from the last video but I'm hoping
to you know make more progress either on
this project or maybe start a new
project entirely and you know talk about
it on this channel anyway thank you as
always for watching my videos and I'll
see you guys in the next one